0	thumb300pxrightKetogenesis Pathway Ketogenesis is the process by which ketone bodies are produced as a result of fatty acid breakdown . 
1	Ketone bodies are produced mainly in the mitochondria of liver cells . 
2	Its synthesis occurs in response to low glucose levels in the blood , and after exhaustion of cellular carbohydrate stores , such as glycogen . 
3	The production of ketone bodies is then initiated to make available energy that is stored as fatty acid . 
4	Fatty acids are enzymatically broken down in β-oxidation to form acetyl-CoA . 
5	Under normal conditions , acetyl- CoA is further oxidized and its energy transferred as electrons to NADH , FADH2 , and GTP in the citric acid cycle (TCA cycle ) . 
6	However , if the amounts of acetyl- CoA generated in fatty-acid β-oxidation challenge the processing capacity of the TCA cycle or if activity in the TCA cycle is low due to low amounts of intermediates such as oxaloacetate , acetyl- CoA is then used instead in biosynthesis of ketone bodies via acetoacyl- CoA and β-hydroxy-β-methylglutaryl- CoA ( HMG-CoA ) . 
7	Besides its role in the synthesis of ketone bodies , HMG-CoA is also an intermediate in the synthesis of cholesterol . 
8	The three ketone bodies are : Each of these compounds is synthesized from acetyl- CoA molecules . 
9	Ketogenesis may or may not occur , depending on levels of available carbohydrates in the cell or body . 
10	This is closely related to the paths of acetyl- CoA : Ketone bodies are created at moderate levels in everyone 's bodies , such as during sleep and other times when no carbohydrates are available . 
11	However , when ketogenesis is happening at higher-than-normal levels , the body is said to be in a state of ketosis . 
12	It is unknown whether ketosis has negative long-term effects . 
13	Both acetoacetate and beta-hydroxybutyrate are acid , and , if levels of these ketone bodies are too high , the pH of the blood drops , resulting in ketoacidosis . 
14	Ketoacidosis is known to occur in untreated Type I diabetes ( see diabetic ketoacidosis ) and in alcoholic after prolonged binge-drinking without intake of sufficient carbohydrates ( see alcoholic ketoacidosis ) . 
15	Less commonly , some patients with poorly controlled Type 2 diabetes may have detectable levels of plasma ketones without significant acidosis . 
16	Category :Metabolism es :Cetogénesis fr:Cétogenèse fi:ketogeneesi sv:ketogenes zh :生酮作用 Acetoacetate , which , if not oxidized to form usable energy , is the source of the two other ketone bodies below Acetone , which , unlike free fatty acids , can be used by the brain for energy . 
17	Acetone is generated through the decarboxylation of acetoacetate which may occur spontaneously or through the enzyme acetoacetate decarboxylase . 
18	β-hydroxybutyrate , which is not , in the technical sense , a ketone according to IUPAC nomenclature . 
19	It is generated through the action of the enzyme D-β-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase on acetoacetate . 
20	When the body has ample carbohydrates available as energy source , glucose is completely oxidized to CO2 ; acetyl- CoA is formed as an intermediate in this process , first entering the citric acid cycle followed by complete conversion of its chemical energy to ATP in oxidative phosporylation . 
21	When the body has excess carbohydrates available , some glucose is fully metabolized , and some of it is stored by using acetyl- CoA to create fatty acids . 
22	( CoA is also recycled here . 
23	) When the body has no free carbohydrates available , fat must be broken down into acetyl- CoA in order to get energy . 
24	Acetyl-CoA is not being recycled through the citric acid cycle because the citric acid cycle intermediates ( mainly oxaloacetate ) have been depleted to feed the gluconeogenesis pathway , and the resulting accumulation of acetyl- CoA activates ketogenesis . 
25	ketone bodies fatty acid metabolism Ketosis Ketogenic diet at University of South Australia James Baggott . 
26	( 1998 ) at University of Utah Retrieved 23 May 2005 . 
27	Musa-Veloso K , Likhodii SS , Cunnane SC Breath acetone is a reliable indicator of ketosis in adults consuming ketogenic meals Am . 
28	J. 
29	Clin . 
30	Nutr . 
31	76 1 65–70 1 July 2002 12081817 http ://www.ajcn 
32	.org/cgi/content/full/76/1/65 
33	Richard A. 
34	Paselk . 
35	( 2001 ) at Humboldt State University Retrieved 23 May 2005 . 
