0	December 2008 43 47 38.22 
1	N 79 20 56.57 
2	W title type :edu 200px Seneca College of Applied Arts and Technology " Seneca Changes You " 1967 Public college for applied arts and technology David Agnew Toronto Ontario Canada 17,000 full-time students and 90,000 part-time students . 
3	10 Campuses across the Greater Toronto Area Red EA1717 &amp; Black 000000 Sammy Sting The Stings on bus route CCAA , ACCC , AUCC , CBIE , Polytechnics Canada Seneca College of Applied Arts and Technology is a Canadian public college in the greater Toronto area . 
4	Seneca College is currently Canada 's largest college with approximately 108,000 students . 
5	The college was established during the formation of Ontario ’s college system in 1967 . 
6	The Colleges of Applied Arts and Technology were established on May 21 , 1965 . 
7	The school was founded as part of a provincial initiative to provide career-oriented diploma and certificate courses , as well as continuing education programs to Ontario communities . 
8	Seneca has 10 campuses in total located throughout the Greater Toronto Area — each with its own academic specialties . 
9	The Newnham Campus is one of the largest college campuses in Canada . 
10	It is home to full and part-time programs in the areas of Business , Applied Arts , Applied Science and Engineering Technology . 
11	The campus is home to a 1,113 bed residence along with a sports centre .It 
12	is located on the north side of Finch Avenue at Hwy . 
13	404 ( Don Valley Parkway ) and Finch Avenue East . 
14	Construction is currently underway on a new four storey , 160,600 sqft m2 on off building at the campus . 
15	Upon completion in Fall 2011 , the new building will create space for an additional 1,100 students . 
16	Seneca@York Campus includes the Stephen E. 
17	Quinlan Building and the Technology Enhanced Learning Building , situated on the Keele Campus of York University . 
18	Several schools are located at this Toronto campus , including Creative Arts and Animation , Biological Sciences &amp; Applied Chemistry , English and Liberal Studies and Information and Communications Technology . 
19	thumbcenterSeneca@York campus King Campus is located in a natural setting of 282 ha acre 0 of woods , lake and fields . 
20	It is home to full and part-time programs in the areas of applied arts and health sciences . 
21	Programs at this campus include : Early Childhood Education , Law Enforcement , Nursing , Social Service Worker ( and Gerontology ) , Tourism Studies , Golf Course Technician , Environmental Landscape Management , Recreation and Leisure Services , Recreation Facility Management , and Veterinary Technician . 
22	It is also offers training in Underwater Skills .It 
23	is also home to a 233 bed residence . 
24	thumb250pxKing City Campus ( Eaton Hall ) Markham Campus opened its doors in 2005 , becoming the first post-secondary education facility in the Town of Markham . 
25	The campus is home to full and part-time programs in the areas of business , marketing , tourism and aviation . 
26	thumbnoneMarkham campus ‎ Jane Campus is home to Seneca ’s Centre for Advanced Technologies . 
27	Students studying at the campus pursue careers in the areas of Tool Design , Computer Numerical Control ( CNC) , and Metals Machining Trades such as Tool &amp; Die Maker and Mould Maker . 
28	The building can be seen from the westbound collector lanes of Highway 401 and is located at 21 Beverly Hills Drive in Toronto . 
29	Buttonville is the home of Seneca 's fleet of aircraft and flight training devices , used for training by students enrolled in the Bachelor of Aviation Program . 
30	All in-flight training is undertaken through the facilities at the Buttonville Airport . 
31	Classroom-based instruction is divided between Markham and Buttonville Campuses .Seneca 
32	's fleet currently consists of 14 aircraft : 9 Cessna 172s , 4 Beechcraft Bonanzas and 2 Beechcraft Barons . 
33	Seneca 's community campuses offer community-based services delivered by the College such as employment services for adults and specialized programs for Internationally-Trained Immigrants and academic upgrading . 
34	The Newmarket Campus offers Employment Ontario services and access to resources and information . 
35	Programs at this location include employment counselling , job search workshops and job development services . 
36	Academic Upgrading is offered in the day and evening . 
37	Computer skills training is also available . 
38	The campus is located in the Weston Produce Plaza , 16655 Yonge St . 
39	, Unit 3 Newmarket , Ontario . 
40	The Scarborough site offers Employment Ontario services and access to resources and information . 
41	Programs at this location include employment counselling , job search workshops , job development services and specialized programs for skilled immigrants such as mentorship . 
42	Academic Upgrading is offered in the day and evening . 
43	It is located at 3660 Midland Ave . 
44	2nd Floor , Scarborough , Ontario . 
45	The Vaughan Campus officially opened its doors on January 28 , 2011 . 
46	The new campus ( located at 1490 Major Mackenzie Drive West , Unit D5 ) offers Vaughan residents a range of services , including academic upgrading , employment services and workplace essential skills training for professionals , as well as a centre for entrepreneurship . 
47	Students at the Yorkgate Campus can learn at their own pace with customized programs in academic upgrading and office systems . 
48	The Literacy and Basic Skills program is available , as are a variety of provincial and federal programs . 
49	The Employment Resource Centre offers assisted services and extended hours on evenings and Saturdays . 
50	The facility is located on the second floor of the Yorkgate Mall at Finch Avenue West and Jane Street . 
51	Seneca offers more than 260 career program options including 11 Bachelor degree programs . 
52	OCAS Seneca College of Applied Arts and Technology http ://www.ontariocolleges.ca/portal/page/portal/ONTCOL/Plan/Seneca 
53	23 June 2011 OCAS Seneca College of Applied Arts and Technology http ://www.ontariocolleges.ca/portal/page/portal/ONTCOL/Plan/Seneca 
54	23 June 2011 Some programs offer co-op options , while others include a mandatory co-op period prior to graduation . 
55	Seneca also offers work placement assistance to students upon graduation . 
56	All Seneca College programs are developed and kept current with the assistance of academic advisory committees . 
57	These committees are made up of Seneca 's academic advisors and key industry members . 
58	They are in place to ensure the education students receive provides the skills necessary for career success . 
59	Seneca College has more than 70 transfer agreements with universities throughout the world including countries such as Australia , Canada , England , South Africa , and the U.S.A. 
60	These agreements allow students to apply their college education to obtain credit towards a university degree . 
61	Applied Arts &amp; Health Sciences Applied Science &amp; Engineering Technology Business Communication , Art &amp; Design International Studies Liberal Arts Continuing Education and Training Workforce Skills Development The Seneca Libraries provide students , faculty and staff with resources and services both online and on-site to enhance academic pursuits . 
62	The libraries offer print , audio visual and electronic resources including books , magazines , journals , videos , dvds , slides , recordings and a variety of topical databases . 
63	Services include research support , library instruction and a large circulating collection . 
64	The libraries provide online help through e-mail and the live reference chat service , “AskON" . 
65	As well , the hosts comprehensive research guides tailored to program specific offerings which supports the learning experience . 
66	Through the Audio-Visual department they offer a centralized media collection and equipment for class presentations and assignments to all faculty , staff and students . 
67	Their state of the art facilities , located at Newnham , York University , Markham and King campuses offers student spaces for group and individual study , audio visual screening classrooms and electronic training centers . 
68	They provide a large number of workstations equipped with instructional software and information resources tailored to course requirements . 
69	The Seneca Student Federation , campus clubs , and athletics offer the chance to get involved in the wider community . 
70	Energetic and active students take on the task of representing their peers in the SSF. 
71	Plan and promote events , participate in campus culture days , join a club for interest , or go on trips for professional development . 
72	Whether for fun or competition , the championship teams at Seneca are always eager for great athletes . 
73	Seneca ’s student government and councils play an active role in student life , by offering programs &amp; events along with running the campus pub and in-house radio station . 
74	Get involved , get engaged , get excited and explore student life at Seneca . 
75	Seneca College currently offers residence at both the Newnham Campus and the King Campus . 
76	Seneca residences are composed of suite-style units containing two bedrooms , a bathroom and kitchenette . 
77	Each bedroom contains a double bed , desk , chair , closet and dresser space , as well as cable TV , internet access and phone . 
78	Students also have access to a common kitchen , laundry rooms , lounge areas , games room and a convenience store . 
79	Buildings have a front desk and 24-hour video monitoring , and are accessed by swipe card . 
80	The Newnham Campus residence holds 1,113 students while the King Campus only holds 233 students . 
81	Residents of the Newnham Campus Residence have the pleasure of a dining hall , a convenience store and a subway restaurant all within the residence .Seneca 
82	College Residence have organized a free shuttle service from the Newnham Campus to Markham , Seneca@York and King Campuses . 
83	The school 's athletic teams are named " The Sting" . 
84	The Seneca Sting is one of the most-decorated athletic program in the history of the Ontario Colleges Athletic Association ( OCAA ) having won more than 450 medals since 1967 . 
85	Seneca has fifteen varsity sports teams , including Badminton , Basketball , Cross Country , Curling , Fastball , Golf , Rugby , Skiing , Soccer , and Volleyball , for both male and female student-athletes . 
86	The Seneca Sports center located at the Newnham Campus includes a full ice arena , a triple gymnasium , 6 tennis courts , a softball diamond , 2 beach volleyball courts , a soccer field , a fitness center along with a dance studio . 
87	Seneca College also offers various fields , gymnasiums and equipment at different campuses . 
88	The Elite 1 Professional Development League , plays at the Newnham Campus Gym . 
89	Elite 1 is a league created to further the development of Canadian basketball players , while making itself inclusive to professionals from other countries . 
90	August 2011 http ://www.phase1basketball.com/node/264 
91	August 2011 The College joined Project Hero , a scholarship program cofounded by General ( Ret 'd ) Rick Hillier , for the families of fallen Canadian Forces members . 
92	Seneca College c Category : Universities and colleges in Toronto Category :Nursing schools in Canada Category :Educational institutions established in 1967 Category :Animation schools * EA1717 000000 Animal Health Community Services Early Childhood Education English and Liberal Studies Health Sciences Public Safety and Police Studies Recreation Underwater Skills Animation and Visual Effects Agilent Technologies Institute Aviation and Flight Technology Biological Sciences &amp; Applied Chemistry Centre for Advanced Technologies Centre for the Built Environment Civil Engineering Technology Information and Communications Technology English and Liberal Studies Fire Protection York / Seneca Institute for Mathematics , Science , and Technology Education Accounting &amp; Financial Services Business Management Centre for Financial Services Centre for Human Resources English and Liberal Studies Legal and Public Administration/Office Administration Creative Arts and Animation English and Liberal Studies Fashion Media &amp; Marketing International Business English Language Institute Tourism Liberal Arts Programs Part-time programs at Seneca Academic and Career Entrance Business Office Skills Career Programs for Internationally Trained Persons Career Change College Preparation for Adults Employment Training and Business Services Services for Skilled Immigrants Workforce Re-entry Programs for Employment Ontario Clients Vivienne Poy - fashion designer and Canadian Senator Beverly Thomson - host of Canada AM Alvin Curling - Canadian diplomat and former Liberal MPP Alan Frew - singer ; lead singer of Glass Tiger Chuck ( Spider ) Jones - broadcaster Mark Penney - film director Roger Petersen - broadcaster Rick Ralph - broadcaster FAN 590 Jully Black - Singer / Songwriter Bill Welychka - former MuchMusic and MuchMoreMusic personality , now weather anchor Danielle McGimsie - Television personality , eTalk . 
93	Camilla Di Giuseppe - Television reporter , CTV Calgary Bill Davis - Bachelor of Applied Studies 2006 Jim Balsillie - Bachelor of Applied Studies 2007 Russell Bannock - Bachelor of Applied Studies 2007 The Honorable Margaret McCain - Bachelor of Applied Studies 2007 The Honorable David Crombie - Bachelor of Applied Studies 2008 Mike Shaver - Bachelor of Applied Studies 2008 Michael " Pinball " Clemons - Bachelor of Applied Studies 2008 David Pecaut - Bachelor of Applied Studies 2008 Sonja Bata - Bachelor of Applied Studies 2009 George Roter - Bachelor of Applied Studies 2009 Parker Mitchell - Bachelor of Applied Studies 2009 Craig Kielburger and Marc Kielburger - Bachelor of Applied Studies 2009 Frances Lankin - Bachelor of Applied Studies 2010 Armand La Barge - Bachelor of Applied Studies 2010 Nanda Lwin , music historian and professor of engineering technology Yorkdale Campus located on ( 2999 ) Dufferin Street south of Lawrence Avenue West in North York was home to the Travel and Tourism program from the 1980s to 2000 . 
94	Formerly C.B. 
95	Parsons Junior High and is now home to Fieldstone Day School . 
96	The building was owned by the North York Board of Education and now owned by the Toronto District School Board . 
97	Markham Learning Centre located at the northeast corner of McCowan Road and Highway 7. 
98	List of colleges in Ontario Higher education in Ontario Canadian Interuniversity Sport Canadian government scientific research organizations Canadian university scientific research organizations Canadian industrial research and development organizations The Spine , a computer animated short by Chris Landreth created with Seneca College animators 
