0	Sinful Sinner Sinners A sin is an act that violates a known moral rule in a religion . 
1	The term sin may also refer to the state of having committed such a violation . 
2	Sin can refer not only to physical actions taken , but also to thoughts and internalized motivations and feelings . 
3	Colloquially , any thought , word , or act considered immoral , selfish , shame , harmful , or alienating might be termed " sinful" . 
4	Common ideas surrounding sin in various religions include : Bahá'í views of sin In the Bahá'í Faith , humans are considered to be naturally good ( perfect ) , fundamentally spiritual beings . 
5	Human beings were created because of God 's immeasurable love . 
6	However , the Bahá'í teachings compare the human heart to a mirror , which , if turned away from the light of the sun ( i .e 
7	. 
8	God ) , is incapable of receiving God 's love . 
9	Buddhist views of sin Buddhism does not recognize the idea behind sin , but believes in the principle of karma , whereby suffering is the inevitable consequence of greed , hatred and delusion . 
10	While there is no Buddhist equivalent of the Abrahamic concept of sin , wrongdoing is recognized in Buddhism . 
11	The concept of Buddhist ethics is consequentialist in nature and is not based upon duty towards God . 
12	Hamartiology Christian views on sin Original sin Biblical law in Christianity In the Christian Bible , " sin is lawlessness " ( 1John 3:4 ) , and so in Western Christianity , salvation tends to be understood in legal terms . 
13	Sin alienates the sinner from God . 
14	It has damaged , and completely severed , the relationship of humanity to God . 
15	That relationship can only be restored through repentance unto Christ and acceptance of Jesus Christ and his death on the cross as a sacrifice for mankind 's sin . 
16	According to some interpreters January 2012 , Jesus Christ states in Matthew 22:35-40 what " Christian Law " is : " Then one of them , which was a lawyer , asked him a question , tempting him , and saying , Master , which is the great commandment in the law ? Jesus said unto him , Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart , and with all thy soul , and with all thy mind . 
17	This is the first and great commandment . 
18	And the second is like unto it , Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.On 
19	these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets . 
20	" -KJV In Eastern Christianity , sin is viewed in terms of its effects on relationships , both among people and between people and God . 
21	Sin is seen as the refusal to follow God 's plan , and the desire to be "like God " ( Genesis 3:5 ) and thus in direct opposition to God 's desires ( see the account of Adam and Eve in the Book of Genesis ) . 
22	To sin is to want control of one 's destiny in opposition to the will of God . 
23	November 2010 In the Russian variant of Eastern Christianity , sin sometimes is regarded as any mistake made by people in their life . 
24	From this point of view every person is sinful because every person makes mistakes during their life . 
25	When a person accuses others of sins they always must remember that they are also sinners and so they must have mercy for others remembering that God is also merciful to them and to all of humanity . 
26	January 2012 Should n't be a problem to find at least two starcy or Russian theologians who formulated the statement above ! 
27	Islamic views of sin Muslims see sin ( dhanb , thanb ذنب ) as anything that goes against the commands of Allah ( God ) . 
28	Islam teaches that sin is an act and not a state of being . 
29	The Qur 'an teaches that " the ( human ) soul is certainly prone to evil , unless the Lord does bestow His Mercy " and that even the prophets do not absolve themselves of the blame . 
30	12 53 It is believed that Iblis ( Satan ) has a significant role in tempting humankind towards sin . 
31	In Islam , there are several gradations of sin : One may sincerely repent to God for the wrongs committed and seek forgiveness , as stated in the sacred Quran : “Our Lord ! 
32	Forgive us our sins , remove from us our iniquities , and take to Yourself our souls in the company of the righteous . 
33	” ( Al-Imran.193/ 
34	3.193 
35	) . 
36	Jewish views on sin Judaism regards the violation of any of the 613 commandments to be a sin . 
37	Judaism teaches that sin is an act , and not a state of being . 
38	Humankind was not created with an inclination to do evil , but has that inclination "from his youth" . 
39	( Genesis 8:21 HE ) Within Shinto there is no doctrine of sin , rather good and evil are conceived of in " aesthetic terms , likening them to straight and curved lines " . 
40	December 2011 Matagatsubi , the curved spirit , causes "evil deeds and any misfortune or disasters " by creating imbalance , distorting the " straight and clear " . 
41	December 2011 Evil deeds fall into two categories in Shinto : amatsu tsumi , " the most pernicious crimes of all" , and kunitsu tsumi , "more commonly called misdemeanors " . 
42	The Essence of Shinto : The Spiritual Heart of Japan by Motohisa Yamakage Category :Christian hamartiology Category :Christian philosophy Category :Crimes in religion Category :Religious belief and doctrine Category :Sin Category :Religious terminology ace :Dèëca ar :خطيئة ay :Jucha az:Günah br :Pec'hed bg :Грях ca :Pecat cs :Hřích cy :Pechod da :Synd de :Sünde et :Patt el :Αμαρτία es :Pecado eo:Peko fa :گناه fr :Péché gd :Peacadh ko :죄 hy :Մեղք hr:Grijeh id :Dosa ia :Peccato it :Peccato he :חטא kn :ಪಾಪ sw :Dhambi la:Peccatum lv:Grēks lt :Nuodėmė li:Zung hu:Bűn ms :Dosa nl :Zonde ( religie ) ja :宗教における罪 no :Synd nn :Synd pl:Grzech pt:Pecado ro:Păcat qu :Hucha ru:Грех sq:Mëkati scn :Piccatu simple :Sin sk :Hriech sl:Greh sr :Грех sh:Grijeh fi:Synti sv:Synd tl:Kasalanan th :บาป tr:Günah uk :Гріх yi :זינד bat-smg:Grieks zh :罪 ( 宗教 ) Punishment for sins , from other people , from God either in life or in afterlife , or from the Universe in general . 
43	The question of whether an act must be intentional to be sinful . 
44	The idea that one 's conscience should produce guilt for a conscious act of sin . 
45	A scheme for determining the seriousness of the sin and the importance of responsibility . 
46	Repentance from ( expressing regret for and determining not to commit ) sin , and atonement ( repayment ) for past deeds . 
47	The possibility of forgiveness of sins , often through communication with a deity or intermediary ; in Christianity often referred to as salvation . 
48	Crime and justice are related secular concepts . 
49	sayyia , khatia : mistakes ( Suras 7:168 ; 17:31 ; 40:45 ; 47 :19 48:2 ) itada , junah , dhanb : immorality ( Suras 2:190,229 ; 17 :17 33 :55 ) haram : transgressions ( Suras 5:4 ; 6:146 ) ithm , dhulam , fujur , su , fasad , fisk , kufr : wickedness and depravity ( Suras 2:99 , 205 ; 4:50 , 112 , 123 , 136 ; 12:79 ; 38:62 ; 82:14 ) shirk : ascribing a partner to God ( Sura 4:48 ) Asceticism Actual sin Eternal sin ( or unforgivable sin ) Evil Fall of Man Hamartiology Hamartia Hedonism Internal sin Morality Mortal sin Seven deadly sins Sin-offering Taboo Total depravity Venial sin Hein , David . 
50	" Regrets Only : A Theology of Remorse . 
51	" The Anglican 33 , no . 
52	4 ( October 2004 ) : 5-6 Schumacher , Meinolf . 
53	Sündenschmutz und Herzensreinheit : Studien zur Metaphorik der Sünde in lateinischer und deutscher Literatur des Mittelalters . 
54	Munich : Fink , 1996 
