0	200pxrightthumbTwo restaurant chefs . 
1	A cook is a person who prepares food for consumption . 
2	In Germany , Austria , Switzerland and Canada this profession requires government approval ( examination after three years apprenticeship ) . 
3	A cook is sometimes referred to as a chef , although in the professional kitchen , the terms are not interchangeable . 
4	The executive chef or sous chef is generally never referred to as a " cook " ( and in fact would likely be an insult ) . 
5	The term " cook " within a restaurant kitchen usually refers to a person with little to no creative influence on a menu and little to no command over others within the kitchen , such as a line cook . 
6	These are usually all members of a restaurant kitchen that are underneath the sous chef in the brigade de cuisine . 
7	Other establishments may have a relatively constant menu , often only having people that can prepare food quickly and consistently , having little need for an executive chef or sous chef . 
8	The kitchens in these particular restaurants would thus be entirely run by cooks . 
9	An example would be a short order cook , who is a cook who prepares fast , easily-assembled meals to order , often working in a diner or cafe . 
10	A head chef is a person in charge of one kitchen whereas an executive chef is in charge of more kitchens or of a larger kitchen-brigade . 
11	The name "executive " refers to the Latin meaning "acting " power , whereby the Property Manager ( Director ) or GM ( General Manager ) would be the "legislative " - deciding power . 
12	When used of residential staff the word cook may refer to the head of the kitchen in a great house or to a cook-housekeeper , responsible for cleaning as well . 
13	See Cook ( servant ) . 
14	thumbAn old Muslim cook with his assistant _ Beijing 1871-2 . 
15	The first Olympic champion listed in the records was a cook , Coroebus of Elis , who won the sprint race in 776 BC . 
16	Saint Lawrence is said to be the patron saint of cooks . 
17	He is reported to have said as he was being burned at the stake in the third century , " I 'm roasted on this side . 
18	If you want me well done , it 's time to turn me over . 
19	" Prida , Delores , " Modern Holy Helpers " , New York Daily NewslLatino , 2008-05 - Category :Food services occupations ar :طباخ bg :Готвач cs :Kuchař da:Kok de:Koch en:Chef eo:Kuiristo es :Cocinero fi:Kokki fr:Chef cuisinier he :שף hu:Szakács id :Koki it :Chef ja :調理師 nl:Chef-kok nn:Kokk no:Kokk pt:Chef pl:Kucharz qu:Yanuq ro:Bucătar ru:Повар simple :Chef sk :Kuchár sv:Kock th :พ่อครัว tr :Yemek yapmak zh :廚師 Chef Chief Cook Cooking Personal chef Cook ( servant ) Domestic worker 
