0	May 2009 Golf instruction involves the teaching and learning of the game of golf . 
1	Proficiency in teaching golf instruction requires not only technical and physical ability , but also knowledge of the rules and etiquette of the game . 
2	Golf instruction is best performed by recognised teachers certified by the relevant bodies ; in the United States , the recommended teachers are those who are PGA Class A Professionals although many of the greatest teachers are not affiliated to the PGA . 
3	Instructors use a combination of physical conditioning , mental visualization , classroom sessions , club fitting , driving range instruction , on-course play under real conditions , and review of videotaped swings in slow motion to teach golf . 
4	Beginning players typically receive a series of lessons , in either a group or individual setting , covering the fundamentals of the golf swing and aspects of pitching , chipping , and putting . 
5	Experienced recreational players often return for instruction , either to fix a specific problem they are encountering or to improve their game . 
6	Reconstruction of a golf swing to reach a high level of play often involves series of lessons over an extended period of time . 
7	Junior golfers often begin receiving instruction by age 10 or younger , and often retain private teachers even when coached on a high school golf team . 
8	Some top instructors who work with professional golfers have become quite well known in their own right over the years , including Harvey Penick , Jack Grout , Dick Harmon , Jim McLean , David Leadbetter , Butch Harmon , Hank Haney , Richard Trammel , Ben Doyle , Mike Bender Sean Foley , Mike Bennett and Andy Plummer . 
9	Some of the teachers maintain teaching facilities or schools , such as the Jim McLean Golf Schools or the David Leadbetter Golf Academy , where they or their disciples use their methods or systems . 
10	A few instructors focus solely on a particular aspect of the sport , such as Dave Pelz with the short game and Bob Rotella with the mental game . 
11	Some famous golfers have been tightly bound with their instructor , such as Jack Nicklaus with Jack Grout , while in other cases golfers have made high-profile switches from one instructor to another , such as Tiger Woods moving from Butch Harmon to various other instructors . 
12	Recreational golfers are constantly seeking tips on how to improve , and the major golf publications such as Golf Magazine and Golf Digest devote substantial portions of their pages to instructional material of various kinds , often written by top-level instructors . 
13	Even television broadcasts of professional golf tournaments often contain short instructional segments , delivered by commentators who are also instructors such as Peter Kostis . 
14	Golf instruction may be augmented by training aids such as specially weighting or jointed clubs , putting cups for practice on the den room carpet , mini practice tees with feedback for use in garages , and so forth . 
15	Some training aids are sold via television infomercials and the more peculiar varieties were satirized in the 1996 film Tin Cup . 
16	Golf instruction is no guarantee of success or improved play in the game . 
17	Bad mechanics can be deeply ingrained in a subject 's swing , and psychological factors can also hinder progress . 
18	The 2009 Golf Channel program The Haney Project : Charles Barkley showcased some of these issues , as Hank Haney attempted to fix former NBA great Charles Barkley 's infamously bad swing . 
19	http ://www.golfdigest.com/instruction/2009/03/charlesbarkley 
20	The Haney Project : Can Hank Haney fix this swing ? Rudy , Matthew Golf Digest March 2009 2009-04-26 http ://www.golfdigest.com/instruction/2009/03/charlesbarkley 
21	The Haney Project : Can Hank Haney fix this swing ? Rudy , Matthew Golf Digest March 2009 2009-04-26 Category :Golf instruction 
