0	Seeking Justice Justice-poster-nicolas-cage .jpg‎ 
1	International teaser poster Roger Donaldson Tobey Maguire Ram Bergman Robert Tannen Nicolas Cage Guy Pearce January Jones J. 
2	Peter Robinson David Tattersall Jay Cassidy 2011 9 2 Italy 2011 11 8 UK 2012 3 16 U.S. 
3	Seeking Justice http ://www.momentumpictures.co.uk/in_cinemas/justice 
4	Seeking Justice http ://www.momentumpictures.co.uk/in_cinemas/justice 
5	English Italian Seeking Justice , formerly known as The Hungry Rabbit Jumps , is a 2011 action film starring Nicolas Cage , Guy Pearce and January Jones . 
6	The film was directed by Roger Donaldson and produced by Tobey Maguire and Ram Bergman . 
7	Filming took place in New Orleans , Louisiana . 
8	The first trailer was released in September 2011 . 
9	New Still Images and International Trailer for Seeking Justice Starring Nicolas Cage http ://www.reelz.com/movie-news/11881/new-still-images-and-international-trailer-for-seeking-justice-starring-nicolas-cage/ 
10	September 24 , 2011 New Still Images and International Trailer for Seeking Justice Starring Nicolas Cage http ://www.reelz.com/movie-news/11881/new-still-images-and-international-trailer-for-seeking-justice-starring-nicolas-cage/ 
11	September 24 , 2011 The film is about Will Gerard ( Cage ) who , after his wife Laura ( Jones ) is raped and assaulted , enlists the services of a vigilante group to help him settle the score . 
12	However Nick discovers some of the group led by Simon ( Pearce ) demands a favour in return and when he refuses , they frame him for murder . 
13	leading him into a world where anyone who is deemed even the slightest threat to this group is dealt with and anyone he knows could be a potential member of the group . 
14	The film begins with a scene showing a recording of Alan Marsh questioning one of the members of Simon 's group . 
15	The man leaves Marsh and proceeds to his car . 
16	He then notices he has been watched by another member of Simon 's group and is murdered , by having his car with him in it pushed of a second floor parking lot , and is made to look like a suicide . 
17	We then go to a pub were Will and Laura are celebrating their anniversary they then see a news report , where the death of the member of Simon 's group is shown to be a suicide . 
18	Later that night Will gives Laura a necklace as an anniversary gift . 
19	The next day Will goes to work ,a New Orleans high school , and explains how Shakespeare uses words to relieve anger . 
20	Then at a pub , where no cell phones are permitted and must be turned off , Will is playing chess with Jimmy , a close friend and principal of the high school which he works at . 
21	We then see Laura exit cello rehearsals and part from her friends . 
22	she then enters her car . 
23	moments later she is approached by a man with a gun and she is brutally raped . 
24	during the rape the rapist takes her necklace which Will gave her . 
25	After Will leaves the pub turns on his phone and realizes that a hospital has tried to contact him several times . 
26	He is informed she has been raped and beaten . 
27	While in the emergency room a man introduces himself as Lieutenant Richards . 
28	While in the hospital Will is Approached by Simon for the first time . 
29	He admits that he experienced the same thing a few years ago . 
30	He then tells will that the man who raped his wife ( Laura ) was paroled a few weeks back and that , if Will wanted , he could "take care of it " . 
31	He tells will that if the police dealt with it it would be to much hassle to go through it and that the rapist might would only get as little as 11 months . 
32	He explained if let him take care of it that it would be free of charge , only that sometime in the future will would have to repay them with a "favour" . 
33	at first will refuses , but after having a few flashbacks and visiting Laura in the ER room he rethinks it . 
34	Simon explains that there is a room of vending machines and that if he wants him to take care of it then he would have to buy two candy bars , which Will does . 
35	Then the rapist walks into his house and puts the necklace he stole on a bedside table , while he proceeds to have a alcoholic beverage . 
36	Then one of simon 's people breaks into the rapist 's house and holds a gun to his head . 
37	there is a struggle but Simon 's man over powers the rapist then murders him . 
38	he then exits the house and calls Simon and recites a phrase " The hungry rabbit jumps " . 
39	we then go to the hospital where Will is seen sleeping in the waiting area and is approached by a man claiming to be with the hospital telling him to sign papers . 
40	will open the envelope and see 's a picture of the rapist dead and his wife 's necklace returned . 
41	before will can ask the man anything he walks away . 
42	He then informs his wife that the rapist has committed suicide . 
43	they then return home and Laura is seen with many bruises . 
44	Six months later Laura tells Will she wants to purchase a gun , he refuses . 
45	She does so anyway , along with pepper spray . 
46	while they are playing billiards in a pub , Will is contacted by Simon . 
47	Simon gives Will an envelope to be mailed at a local zoo . 
48	Will follows instructions and goes to the zoo and is told to open the letter . 
49	He is told to follow a woman and her two kids , or if a different man( Alan Marsh ) arrives to call a number and say " The hungry rabbit jumps " . 
50	the next day at work Will see 's a number on his classroom white board . 
51	Will bumps into a man and is given an envelope . 
52	It contains picture of a man called Leon Walczak . 
53	30em Category :2011 films Category :American films Category :English-language films Category :Films directed by Roger Donaldson Category :Films shot in New Orleans _ Louisiana Category :Rape and revenge films fr:Le Pacte ( film _ 2011 ) hy :Արդարադատության որոնում it :Solo per vendetta ru:Голодный кролик атакует Nicolas Cage as Will Gerard Jennifer Carpenter January Jones as Laura Gerard Guy Pearce as Simon/Eugene Cook Harold Perrineau as Jimmy Xander Berkeley as Lieutenant Durgan IronE Singleton as Scar Cullen Moss as Jones Marcus Lyle Brown as Detective Green 1214962 Seeking Justice 
